We are living in an age where data is being produced faster than it can be consumed,
and this is all too true in health care.
Physician burnout is a major topic of conversation in healthcare these days and much of
the burnout is due to the increased data that physicians are
required to input and consume about their patients.
We expect doctors to see,
diagnose and treat more patients in less time every year.
This causes fatigue for them and
also potential mistakes on their part that can be dangerous to the patient.
The specific world of medical imaging is no different from the entirety of medicine.
Radiologists are the type of clinician who read
medical images and over the past several years their turnaround time,
which is the maximum time they are supposed to spend or reading each image,
has decreased significantly due to increasing demands on the healthcare system.
While this presents burnout,
it presents large challenges for radiologists.
It also presents great opportunities for AI,
because AI can enhance efficiency,
reduce human errors and achieve goals with minimal human operation.
In 2020, there are a lot of applications of
machine learning and deep learning that exists in medical imaging.
A lot of these applications are something that fall into
a category called CADx or computer assisted diagnostics.
They are tools that help commissions more easily find suspicious areas of medical images.
For example, identifying a region of a chest x-ray,
where there may be lung nodules.
Other applications of machine learning and deep learning include
reprioritization of clinical workflows so that needier patients are seen faster,
and even more cutting edge,
are applications for personalized medicine,
where deep learning can be used to search
incredibly large databases to find patients who are similar to one
another and suggest specific treatment plans based
on treatments that were successful for patients who are more similar to them.